we know that a man a 66 year old man
with the latest report was killed
following a shark attack as he was
swimming in the waters off of Solana
Beach with us now is Sheriff Randy Webb
he's with the San Diego Sheriff's
Department sheriff Webb what more can
you tell us at this point well at about
7:20 this morning he was in a group of
about nine swimmers who started out at
Solano Vista and was swimming north when
some of them looked back and saw him
completely out of the water
flailing his arms he was pulled back
underneath the water and was let go and
came up screaming for the swimmers
helped him to shore his lifeguards put
him in a truck and drove him to Fletcher
Cove where they had mercy air coming in
to airlift him to a hospital they were
doing CPR on anybody apparently
exsanguinated and died before being air
able to be airlifted to the hospital our
Sheriff's helicopter was up searching
the water for the shark which is
apparently a great white shark that's
the speculation at this point he was
bitten across both thighs and it appears
to be too large of a bite to be anything
but a great white at this point sheriff
how I mean I know that this kind of
attack is extremely rare and just in
general it is but specifically in your
area how common are great whites though
along those waters
well great whites are in the waters off
of our coast they aren't very rare very
common at all but they are here and
there are many surfers and swimmers in
the waters it's a very rare event though
I imagine you've closed the beach now
how long do you plan on searching for
this shark well I don't know how long
we'll continue searching for the shark
but they live in the ocean and they're
here all the time the lifeguards up and
down the coast are taking precautions
along their beaches and I underst
and you will release this man's name
once you've notified his family and to
hold a press conference any more
information people should know as they
hear this story
I can't think of any just if you're
gonna go in the water right now to be a
little bit careful alright Sheriff Randy
Webb we appreciate it thanks so much for
taking the time to talk to us you're
welcome joining us now we have a shark
expert on the phone George Burgess
following this attack and mr. Burgess if
you can I mean I asked the sheriff how
rare this is obviously it doesn't happen
very often we don't hear about this type
of thing very often but what can prompt
a great white like this to attack well
certainly the white shark is the largest
of the predatory sharks it's almost 20
feet in length and so it goes after
large prey items and unfortunately once
in a while a human being is appropriate
to that mmm and perhaps appropriate
behavior to draw its interest shark
attack resulting in fatalities is a very
uncommon phenomenon of course last year
there was only one fatality worldwide as
a result of shark attack so a very
unfortunate and incident but also a very
rare one yeah I mean that is important
to note and it was a group of nine
swimmers entering the water and I know
that these types of stories tend to make
people fearful of getting in the water
at all what's your advice well as the
gentleman indicated before me when you
enter the city of course it is a
wilderness experience and we need to
understand that these animals live there
along with many other animals and plants
and and we're invaders every time we
enter the sea I said there's a certain
risk that we have to accept as we engage
in this wilderness experience for us
there's it's not a great risk and we
don't have this happen too often but
certainly we want to avoid areas where a
big predators such as the great whites
are common would certainly want to avoid
areas where seals and sea lions are
hauling out those areas in particular
are very good white shark areas yeah how
close to the shore will a great white
typically swim around or be around then
oh well they certainly into the Surrey
stone with some frequency and and they
keep in mind if you're going to go chase
the seal or a sea lion to make that a
meal you got to go where the seals and
lions are and of course the those are
marine mammals to come out of the water
and onto the shore so the best place to
hijack a sea lion is after entering the
water or leaving it alright George
Burgess we appreciate it thanks so much
already